CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to nleval

First and foremost, we thank you for your interest in contributing to the `nleval` pacakge! We welcome any kind of contribution, e.g.,

- New features
- Bug fixes and new tests
- Typo fixes or improving the documentation in general

To get started,

1. Make a fork of the repository, and create a new branch where you will be making your changes
1. After you are done with the new changes, make a Pull Request https://github.com/krishnanlab/NetworkLearningEval/pulls of your changes

## Dev notes

### Installation

To develop `nleval`, first clone your forked repository to your machine (replace `<your_github_handle>` with your GitHub handle)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your_github_handle>/NetworkLearningEval
cd NetworkLearningEval
```

If you have done it before, make sure your fork is in-sync with the latest changes and pull the changes to your local copy

```bash
git pull
```

Then, create a conda environment for developing `nleval` (this is not required, but it is recommended to have an isolated development
environment as it keeps the dependency versions clean)

```bash
conda create -n nleval-dev python=3.9
conda activate nleval-dev
```

Install `nleval` with development dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt  # install dependencies with pinned version
pip install -e ".[dev]"  # install extra dependencies for dev
```

Finally, install pre-commit hooks to enable automated code quality control for each commit

```bash
pre-commit install
```

### Testing

To run all existing unit-tests, simply run `pytest` at the project root directory

```bash
pytest
```

### Linting

We provide some additional code quality control tools via `tox` to help catch early mistasks:

```bash
tox -e mypy,flake8
```

### Continuous integration

We have set up continuous integration via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/krishnanlab/NetworkLearningEval/actions).
Every time a pull request is made from a branch (and any following push to that branch) will trigger automated [testing](#testing)
and [linting](#linting) to check the changes against out dev guidelines.

## Building documentation

1. Install `nleval` with doc dependencies (e.g., [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/))

   ```bash
   pip install -e .[full,doc]
   ```

1. Install [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) if you have not done so yet, or simply install a
   minimal cpu version of PyTorch if you only want to build the `nleval` documentation:

   ```bash
   conda install pytorch cpuonly -c pytorch
   ```

1. Build the documentation

   ```bash
   cd docs
   make html
   ```

You can now view the documentation page by opening `docs/build/html/index.html`

Commit message:

updating to `obnb` (#424)
* rename nleval lib to obnb

* rename nleval lib to obnb

* fix import error from pyroe

* move nleval rst to obnb

* update workflow files

* update hpo annotation parsing

* update data version tags

* minor fix: data_sources type

* [pre-commit.ci] auto fixes from pre-commit.com hooks

for more information, see https://pre-commit.ci

---------

Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to obnb

First and foremost, we thank you for your interest in contributing to the `obnb` pacakge! We welcome any kind of contribution, e.g.,

- New features
- Bug fixes and new tests
- Typo fixes or improving the documentation in general

To get started,

1. Make a fork of the repository, and create a new branch where you will be making your changes
1. After you are done with the new changes, make a Pull Request https://github.com/krishnanlab/NetworkLearningEval/pulls of your changes

## Dev notes

### Installation

To develop `obnb`, first clone your forked repository to your machine (replace `<your_github_handle>` with your GitHub handle)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your_github_handle>/NetworkLearningEval
cd NetworkLearningEval
```

If you have done it before, make sure your fork is in-sync with the latest changes and pull the changes to your local copy

```bash
git pull
```

Then, create a conda environment for developing `obnb` (this is not required, but it is recommended to have an isolated development
environment as it keeps the dependency versions clean)

```bash
conda create -n obnb-dev python=3.9
conda activate obnb-dev
```

Install `obnb` with development dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt  # install dependencies with pinned version
pip install -e ".[dev]"  # install extra dependencies for dev
```

Finally, install pre-commit hooks to enable automated code quality control for each commit

```bash
pre-commit install
```

### Testing

To run all existing unit-tests, simply run `pytest` at the project root directory

```bash
pytest
```

### Linting

We provide some additional code quality control tools via `tox` to help catch early mistasks:

```bash
tox -e mypy,flake8
```

### Continuous integration

We have set up continuous integration via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/krishnanlab/NetworkLearningEval/actions).
Every time a pull request is made from a branch (and any following push to that branch) will trigger automated [testing](#testing)
and [linting](#linting) to check the changes against out dev guidelines.

## Building documentation

1. Install `obnb` with doc dependencies (e.g., [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/))

   ```bash
   pip install -e .[full,doc]
   ```

1. Install [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) if you have not done so yet, or simply install a
   minimal cpu version of PyTorch if you only want to build the `obnb` documentation:

   ```bash
   conda install pytorch cpuonly -c pytorch
   ```

1. Build the documentation

   ```bash
   cd docs
   make html
   ```

You can now view the documentation page by opening `docs/build/html/index.html`
